>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
we have a service worker registration.
And it is loaded up our service worker,
and
it's gonna start doing its installation,
and running, and all of that.
But we need to get access
to our service worker, and
we're gonna need to be able
to communicate with it.
So the way we are gonna first
assign our service worker,
we don't know at this point
what state our service worker.
>> Kyle Simpson: svcworker,
we don't know at what state our
service worker is in at this point.
And the three stages that it
could possibly be in are exposed
as navigator.serviceworker.installing.
Sorry, it's not navigator.serviceworker.
This is our registration.
We're going to use
swRegistration.installing.
If it's not in the installing, it might
be in the swRegistration.activating.
Actually this is called waiting, sorry.
This is called waiting,
or the final stage there,
state that it could be in
sw registration.active.
So it can either be installing,
waiting or active.
So let's talk about those three states for
a moment.
Installing is pretty obvious.
This is the first time that
service worker has been loaded.
And by the way, by service worker,
we mean that unique configuration of that.
So every time we make a change to
a service worker, even if it's just a code
comment, the browser is gonna think this
is an entirely new service worker that
has to go through the whole lifecycle it
needs to be installed, and all of that.
And if we've updated a service worker or
one already existed,
now we can have a worker that we could
have very easily a site that has.
At least two instances
of a service worker,
which probably sounds like it could
be a problem, because it could be.
Now we have sort of some chaos,
so the way the life cycle works
is that you can only have one service
worker active at any given moment.
And so by default when a second
one has been installed,
because you've made a quick small
change to it from the last time.
When the second one has been installed,
it enters a waiting phase.
Waiting for the first one to be finished.
And the first one is not
considered finished,
until the lifetime of the page
that it was serving has gone away.
So you might think,
well if the user just clicks refresh,
then that should be good enough.
And it turns out by way of
nuances of the way that works,
you actually have to have a navigation
event, like the user has to navigate
to some other page before
the previous service worker can die.
And then the secondary or the new service
worker that's in this waiting stage,
immediately activates
when the old one dies.
So it was installed but it hasn't done
anything yet its kind of been in waiting
game, and then the old ones goes away and
the new one is immediately implied.
That is sometimes what you want, and
I think the reason for the default
of that sort of wankyness about having
to wait for another navigation event.
Is that, if you ship out a service
worker update to a page, and the page
itself wasn't loaded by that service
worker, it was loaded by a previous one.
It is possible if you weren't careful that
there could be some sort of weird mismatch
of what code is running,
versus what code is expected.
So generally, they just default to saying
the users gotta go to a whole new page,
before the new experience comes up.
But that can also be super annoying to
a user, if they have thought they got
something updated, and they have to go to
a whole new page just to see that update.
They came to your page
brand new a while back, but
now they're back at your page, and
they've loaded up your page, and
nothing has changed from
the last time they were there,
until they click on the next link and
now everything's changed again.
And that's gonna look real weird to them.
So depending on your user experience that
you want from a user when you're doing
an update, you can actually tell your
service worker to skip the waiting stage.
There's a method that we will call in
the installation in our service worker,
that's called skipWaiting.
My personal feeling is that
I do this all the time, but
I can certainly understand why
you might wanna allow that
sort of two-stage waiting,
and then activation thing.
But I always like to skip
the waiting stage in my usage of it.
Which basically says, tell that old
service worker as quickly as possible,
kill yourself so
that I can come into play.
And it essentially almost
immediately then, gets activated.
Okay?
But again the browser's gonna
make sure in this life cycle that
no two incidences of the service worker
are actually active at any given moment.
So we might have a service worker in
any one of these three stages, and
it's only ever in one
of these three stages.
So we wanna grab which ever one that is.
Now, if we're in this scenario
where no service worker
has been installed or
a brand new one is just been installed.
In other words, we're not in the case
where we've loaded the page, but
it's the same service
worker that it always was.
The browser always checks for
a new service worker every page load,
it unconditionally checks for
your new service worker.
That used to be that the browser would
pay attention to any like web caching
headers that you may have sent
with your service worker.
So the best practice was
if you wanted that check,
you had to make sure your service worker
wasn't being cached in the browser cache.
As of I think chrome 48 or something,
they unconditionally skip the cache and
force a reload check of the service
worker similar to your favorite con,
they checked the service
worker every time.
So if you want to make an update
to anybody, all you got to do is
update your service worker,
including like changing a comment or
changing a version which we'll talk
about in a moment when we get into it.
So you gotta update your service worker,
that will force a new service worker to
load, install itself and we might wanna be
notified that the new service worker has
moved into that state,
where it's now controlling things.
There's a controller change
event that we wanna listen for.
>> Speaker 2: SW registration.
>> Kyle Simpson: swRegistration's
what we called it up here at the top,
that's our variable that we made.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 3: Are we redeclaring svcworker
though on line-
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
we shouldn't be doing a var here,
we should be assigning it.
Okay, we're gonna listen for the event on
navigator.serviceWorker .addEventListener.
>> Kyle Simpson: Controllerchange,
that means a new service worker
had taken control of the page.
It went through the installation, it's
finished its waiting either normally or
it forcibly quit its waiting.
And now, it's ready to go,
so onController.
>> Kyle Simpson: And if that's happened,
then we definitely have a new service
worker so we're gonna go ahead and
reassign service worker, and
now it's going to be the one that's at
navigator.serviceWorker.controller.
>> Speaker 3: And you also have
a typo on swRegistration.waiting.
Just missing the t on ration.
>> Kyle Simpson: Sorry, thank you.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm sure that's just
the first of 5,000 typos I'm gonna make.
There's a lot of typing here.
We haven't even got to
the service worker yet.
One little tweak that I need to make here,
is this isn't false.
This is the string none.
I'm sorry about that.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, that should be all
we need to do here to get our service
worker up and going.
So it is definitely a few more intricate
steps than just saying new worker.
But essentially,
what we're doing is saying, go ahead and
get my service worker up and
going, get it installing itself.
And by the way, technically,
you don't need to call register
if you already have a service
worker that hasn't changed.
So technically, you could write
some logic that only calls that,
if you know that you've updated your
service worker, once it's been registered,
it doesn't ever have to be registered
again unless it's changed.
So, you don't technically
have to call this one.
But I always call it every time.
It's much simpler in the logic
to just write this code.
And it's essentially a no op,
it's gonna check it regardless
of whether you call register.
So it's basically a no op
in any other case, but
it's a good idea just to make
sure it's definitely there.
Cuz technically, I guess somebody could
go in and on install your service worker,
between visits on your page or
something like that.